What you’ll learn in the HBR Manager’s Handbook
To become an effective manager and a strong leader, you need to solve
practical problems every day. You need to vet processes, draft budgets, and
delegate tasks. The work is also deeply personal. Whether you’re coaching
an employee or negotiating with your boss, the role calls upon your empathy,
resilience, and a sense of purpose. To succeed, you must complement
the development of your practical skills with inward refl ection and an investment
in your personal growth.
The HBR Manager’s Handbook helps you on both of these fronts with
handy tips, step-by-step instructions, and concise explanations of the ideas
that matter most to both your day-to-day success and your ongoing development.
Drawn from the expertise of Harvard Business Review authors,
this book shares best practices and foundational concepts from classic articles
as well as emerging ideas and research. You’ll read stories from real
managers and learn how to apply their insights to your own work with
hands-on assessments and templates. Each chapter concludes with a summary
of key points and action items that allow you to put the ideas in the
chapter directly into practice, quickly.
The book is organized into fi ve parts that begin by addressing your
new role and the skills and mindset that you need to develop in order to be
an effective leader. The book then moves through managing individuals
and then managing your team as a whole. Finally, the last part covers the
hard skills that help you manage the business. Each chapter addresses one
of seventeen essential skills.
In part one, “Develop a Leader Mindset,” you’ll learn about the basic
building blocks of good management and leadership. Chapter 1, “The Transition
to Leadership,” walks you through the shift in your day-to-day responsibilities
as well as the bigger-picture changes that come with shifting
from an individual contributor role to management. In chapter 2, “Building
Trust and Credibility,” you’ll learn why trust is so vital to your success
and how to establish credibility with your team from day one. These relationships
will depend in no small part on your ability to recognize and
Introduction3
manage your emotions and those of others, a skill addressed in chapter 3,
“Emotional Intelligence.” Chapter 4, “Positioning Yourself for Success,”
prepares you to engage with your company’s strategic mission and understand
how it affects your own performance. These four chapters are fundamental
to your work as a manager, and your engagement with these ideas
will continue throughout your leadership journey.
The next four sections of the book refl ect four areas of your work life
in which you need to excel to manage effectively. In part two, “Managing
Yourself,” you’ll continue to work on skills essential to your own performance
as a rising leader in an organization. In chapter 5, “Becoming a
Person of Infl uence,” you’ll learn about the deliberate ways you can position
yourself to gain trust and sway in the organization. Chapter 6, “Communicating
Effectively,” addresses how to keep your audience’s attention and
make your point effectively, whether in writing or in person. In chapter
7, “Personal Productivity,” you’ll learn how to make the most of your time
and keep chaos (and stress) at bay. And in chapter 8, “Self-Development,”
you’ll take a longer view of your own professional purpose and how to take
charge of your path forward.
Part three, “Managing Individuals,” moves on to one of your major responsibilities
as a manager: to elicit the best performance from each of
your direct reports. Chapter 9, “Delegating with Confi dence,” deals with
delegating work and holding people accountable for their assignments.
Giving feedback is a critical strategy for accountability, and chapter 10,
“Giving Effective Feedback,” describes best practices for performance reviews,
coaching, and informal, real-time feedback. In chapter 11, “Developing
Talent,” you’ll weave these interactions into a more formal strategy to
help the individual grow.
Part four, “Managing Teams,” moves beyond your one-on-one relationships
with your employees and looks instead at how to organize and support
the work they do together. In chapter 12, “Leading Teams,” you’ll learn
how to foster a cohesive and productive group culture. Chapter 13, “Fostering
Creativity,” shows how to lead productive idea-generating sessions with
your team and how to build a creative environment that helps those new
4HBR Manager’s Handbook
ideas fl ourish. And chapter 14, “Hiring—and Keeping—the Best,” explains
how to build your team by hiring the right people and keeping them engaged
with their work.
In the fi nal section of this book, we turn to “Managing the Business.”
Here you’ll dive into the hard skills you need to measure and boost your
team’s performance within the organization, starting with strategic planning,
execution, and thinking in chapter 15, “Strategy: A Primer.” Chapter
16, “Mastering Financial Tools,” offers an overview of basic fi nancial
concepts, with a deep dive into the three key fi nancial statements that
can help you gauge your organization’s overall health and help you make
key decisions. In chapter 17, “Developing a Business Case,” you’ll pull together
both hard and soft skills to effectively pitch a new idea within your
company.
Finally, the “Sources” section lists the many sources from which the
information in each chapter is drawn. If you want to learn more about a
particular topic, start with these resources—books, articles, and videos,
many of which are available on HBR.org.